+++
date = '2026-02-04T21:28:14+01:00'
draft = false
title = 'Lectures'
weight = 20
+++

### Prof Yacine Chitour

- _Lecture 01 (04-Feb-2026)_: Motivation for the course, flows of linear and non-linear ODEs, flows of PDEs, resolvent operators, dual operators.
- _Lecture 02 (05-Feb-2026)_: Compact operators on Banach and Hilbert spaces, Riesz's lemma, Fredholm alternative, adjoint operators, symmetric and self-adjoint operators, Friedrich's extension.
- _Lecture 03 (08-Feb-2026)_: Dissipative operators, definition of numerical range, homework problem 1, definition of semi-group of bounded linear operators (SG-BLO), definition of infinitesimal generator, additional continuity conditions on SG-BLO, uniform continuity of the SG family.
- _Lecture 04 (09-Feb-2026)_: Strongly continuous semigroups $(C_0-SG)$, bound on SC-SG, continuity of SC-SG, properties of SC-SG's IG, Hille-Yosida Theorem, proof of the only-if direction, some lemma to proof the if ($\implies$) direction.
- _Lecture 05 (11-Feb-2026)_: Proof of the only if direction ($\impliedby$) of Hille-Yosida, Hille-Yosida for the case of $(1, \omega)$ with proof, additional lemma for the resolvent operator, renorming lemma, Hille-Yosida for the case of $(M, \omega)$ without proof.
- _Lecture 06 (12-Feb-2026)_: Proof of Hille-Yosida for the case of $(M, 0)$, Hille-Yosida for the case of $(M, \omega)$, The limit of any Yosida approximation for UBLO is the $C_0-SG$ generated by the UBLO, some remarks about the Laplace Transform, Spectral Mapping Theorem, and the relation between the spectrum of elements of $C_0-SG$ and its IG.
- _Lecture 07 (15-Feb-2026)_: Applications to PDEs, Definitions of solutions of PDEs, solutions of Initial Value (IV) homogeneous Cauchy Problem (CP) and their relation with $C_0$-SG if it exists for the strong and weak solutions, the uniqueness of the mild solution.
- _Lecture 08 (16-Feb-2026)_: Solutions of Initial Value (IV) homogeneous Cauchy Problem (CP) and their relation with $C_0$-SG if it exists for the mild solutions.

[Semigroups Notes](/semigroup-theory.pdf) (Up to the 8th Lecture. Last updated: 08-Mar-2026)

### Prof Baddredine Benhellal

- _Lecture 01 (10-Mar-2026)_: Motivation for the course, some preliminaries, test functions and molifiers, some properties, convolution of continuous functions and some properties, density of $C_c^{\infty}(\mathbb{R}^d)$ in $L^p(\mathbb{R}^d)$, density of $C_c^{\infty}(\Omega)$ in $L^p(\Omega)$, definition of $D_K(\Omega)$, definition of Distribution, some remarks, definition of order of distribution, some examples of distribution and their orders(including Dirac Delta $(\delta_a)$).

{{% notice note "Maintainer's Note" %}}
**This is an individual initiative.**

Those notes takes much to type and check properly, any contributions in terms of writing, preparing or checking is welcomed and appreciated.

If you find a mistake, have a better proof for a statement, something that can be improved or want to suggest a change to the structure, please reach out or open an issue on the repository. Your feedback is vital to making this a reliable resource for all of us.
{{% /notice %}}
